# tic-tac-toe-explaination
Build the Tic-Tac-Toe game
Go into the styles/Home.module.css file and paste the following code:

.container {
  padding: 0 2rem;
}

.main {
  min-height: 100vh;
  flex: 1;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}
Next, we’ll go into the pages/index.js and paste the following code:

import Head from "next/head";
import styles from "../styles/Home.module.css";
import TicTacToe from "../components/TicTacToe";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div className={styles.container}>
      <Head>
        <title>Tic Tac Toe game</title>
        <meta name="description" content="Generated by create next app" />
        <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
        <style>
          @import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Indie+Flower');
        </style>
      </Head>

      <main className={styles.main}>
        <TicTacToe />
      </main>
    </div>
  );
}
The Home component will load on every route of our project. Notice that we imported our TicTacToe component and the stylesheet Home.module.css.

Inside the Home component, we set up a Head. Inside this Head, we have title and meta tags. We also have a style tag to load the font. We load the Indie Flower font to display the X and O on the board. Lastly, in the main tag, we render the TicTacToe component.

The TicTacToe component
Let’s move to the TicTacToe component. Our board will be a square of 3×3 cells, and players will compete inside the cells. To define our board, we’ll use a multi-dimensional array:

[
  ["", "", ""],
  ["", "", ""],
  ["", "", ""],
];
The first dimension is the row, and the second dimension is the column. The rows and columns are numbered from 0 to 2. The first row is 0, the second row is 1, and the third row is 2. The first column is 0, the second column is 1, and the third column is 2.

The first row is the top row, the second row is the middle row, and the third row is the bottom row. The first column is the left column, the second column is the middle column, and the third column is the right column.

We’ll draw the board on the DOM from this array. The first cell is in the first row and the first column, the second cell is in the first row and second column, and the third cell is in the first row and third column. It follows this pattern until the last cell.

First, we import the React library and the styles from the TicTacToe.module.css file:

// TickTacToe/index.js
import styles from "./TicTacToe.module.css";
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";
Next, we’ll create an object that will hold the name and symbol of each player in the game. For this tutorial, it’ll be us against the computer:

// TickTacToe/index.js
// previous code here

const players = {
  CPU: {
    SYM: "O",
    NAME: "CPU",
  },
  HUMAN: {
    SYM: "X",
    NAME: "You",
  },
};
The players object holds the name and symbol of the players. CPU is the name of the computer, and O is the symbol of the computer. You is the name of the human, and X is the symbol of the human.

Next, we’ll create a function sleep, which we’ll use to simulate computer thinking:

// TickTacToe/index.js
// previous code here

function sleep(milliseconds) {
  const date = Date.now();
  let currentDate = null;
  do {
    currentDate = Date.now();
  } while (currentDate - date < milliseconds);
}
The code above will wait for the specified number of milliseconds before releasing the CPU.
Now, we create the TicTacToe component:

// TickTacToe/TicTacToe.js
//  previous code here

export default function TicTacToe() {}
To hold the board, we create a useState Hook. We’ll create additional Hooks to hold the turn and the winner:

// TickTacToe/TicTacToe.js
// previous code here
export default function TicTacToe() {
  const [board, setBoard] = useState([
    ["", "", ""],
    ["", "", ""],
    ["", "", ""],
  ]);
  const [isCPUNext, setIsCPUNext] = useState(false);
  const [winner, setWinner] = useState(null);
}
board state: Holds the multi-dimensional array of the board
setBoard function: Sets the board
isCPUNext state: Holds the turn of the player
setIsCPUNext function: Sets the turn
winner state: Holds the winner of the game
setWinner function: Sets the winner
Next, we render the UI as follows:

// TickTacToe/TicTacToe.js
// previous code here
export default function TicTacToe() {
  // code here

  return (
    <div className={styles.container}>
      <div className={styles.col}>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(0, 0)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[0\][0]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(0, 1)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[0\][1]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(0, 2)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[0\][2]}
        </span>
      </div>
      <div className={styles.col}>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(1, 0)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[1\][0]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(1, 1)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[1\][1]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(1, 2)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[1\][2]}
        </span>
      </div>
      <div className={styles.col}>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(2, 0)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[2\][0]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(2, 1)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[2\][1]}
        </span>
        <span onClick={() => playFn(2, 2)} className={styles.cell}>
          {board\[2\][2]}
        </span>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
In the code above, we have a container that encloses each cell and the cols. Each col is a row of the board. Each cell is a cell of the board. When a cell is clicked, the playFn function will be called.

See that in the first cell, we displayed the value, thereby getting the first array in the board array and the first element in the array. Likewise, we did the same for the second cell and eventually the rest of the cells.
